Now let's look at how the technical BA would work
with the agile development team.
Let's discuss the options the technical BA has with the agile dev team.
At the bottom of the slide we have the members of a typical dev team.
Certainly they might be a bit different in your environment.
In this case, the technical BA is a member of the dev team,
just like the other members, and participates in all aspects of project,
release, and sprint planning and execution.
In some organizations where resources, budgets,
or skills may be tight,
the technical BA may not only play the role of an analyst on the team,
but also the Scrum Master role at the same time.
I think since a technical BA is not developing software,
then they can be more objective in ensuring the
agile/Scrum processes are being followed.
Now, without a PM schedules and budgets are usually pushed aside,
forgotten, or the dev team says we are agile,
who needs them?
This is not wise.
I don't like that approach and management generally needs a steady
flow of more traditional project information and artifacts to make
business decisions such as funding, scheduling,
and resources throughout a company, and not only in IT.
Again, in some organizations where resources,
budgets or skills may be tight or limited,
the technical BA may not only play the role of an analyst on the team,
but also the project management role at the same time.
Yes,
I know that the project manager is not an official
part of the agile and Scrum team,
but I have seen this role in more cases than not and I do
recommend it and like it on larger projects.
To wrap up, with the right skills, you, the technical BA,
could do all three of these roles concurrently.
In addition to your technical BA skills,
you could also get certified as a Scrum Master and
get your PNP certification as well.
What a killer combination of skills you would have.
I would hire you in a heartbeat.
Also, people are not built from cookie cutters,
but have a composite set of skills and capabilities; hence,
every agile/Scrum team may be composed slightly
differently based on the talent at hand.
Positioning the technical BA role in agile teams.
As a matter of team design,
a technical BA role should be considered for every team based
on the nature of the makeup of the team,
the user stories, and your resources which may be limited.
Sharing a technical BA across multiple teams is an option certainly,
just like a DBA or a quality assurance analyst role may not be full-time either.
The technical BA could be a part-time member.
In the perfect world the dev team is one single group of people
performing multiple sprints and getting more efficient,
that is improving their velocity with every sprint.
I want to emphasize consistent, yet could also be part-time.
But that is not how it usually is in the real world.
Resources vary and business analyst skills vary as well.
Therefore, be flexible in how you allocate your resources for your agile team.
Here are two key areas a technical BA should focus on.
The first is a business focus.
Working with the product owners and customer representatives by asking probing,
what if, what about type questions.
The best analysts are involved in every aspect of story identification.
This is a very key skill,
listening intently to discern if and when a requirement is expressed.
The technical BA will have an understanding of the various ways the
broad community of users will need to use the system,
understanding the divergent needs and smoothing the
differences to identify the design aspects,
which will work for the disparate stakeholders.
The analysts will marshal and guide epics and user stories,
steering the discovery process and facilitating the
communication among the development team.
The second key area is interpersonal focus.
What I mean by this focus area is the relationships
and communication between people.
Nurturing stakeholder relationships.
Building a deeper understanding and appreciation of the stakeholders,
communities, business, drivers, and issues.
Gaining insight into the political aspects of the project
and influence relationships which underlie the formal
structure of the organization.
Lastly,
these activities I have just mentioned above are
well suited for the technical BA, or certainly should be.
Not all members of the dev team are interested in these activities,
nor want to do them.
Technical BAs being business analysts at heart have a greater affinity for these more personal and soft skill activities.